# 1. Introduction
Service Providers are relying on BGPaaS for routing from/to VNF.
VNFs are made up of several nodes spread on different computes.
VNFs will usually rely on two bgp peers for High Availablity.
All BGP peers from a VNF can be terminated onto the same control node.
If the control node fails, both primary and secondary peer get lost at
a same time. It will break the High Availablity.

# 2. Problem statement
The BGPaaS has to support control-node-zone selection.
Configuration option would be given in BGPaaS to choose control-node-zones
to which it has to be peered.

# 3. Proposed solution
In the BGPaaS configuration, option would be given to choose primary and
secondary control-node-zones. Control-node-zones can have one or more
control-nodes. If control-node-zone has more than one control-nodes, one will
be choosen randomly as peer. Existing model would be followed if
control-node-zone is not configured.

## 3.1 Alternatives considered None.

## 3.2 API schema changes
New Ifmap identifier control-node-zone will be added as a child to
global-system-config.
    <xsd:element name="control-node-zone" type="ifmap:IdentityType"/>
    <xsd:element name="global-system-config-bgp-router"/>
    <!--#IFMAP-SEMANTICS-IDL
        Link('global-system-config-bgp-router',
                'global-system-config', 'bgp-router', ['ref'], 'required', 'R',
                'List of references to all bgp routers in systems.') -->

Link will be added between bgp-router and control-node-zone.
    <xsd:element name="bgp-router-control-node-zone"/>
    <!--#IFMAP-SEMANTICS-IDL
        Link('bgp-router-control-node-zone',
            'bgp-router', 'control-node-zone', ['ref'], 'optional', 'CRUD',
            'This bgp-router belongs to the referenced control-node-zone.') -->

Attribute type of BgpaasBgpRouterType will be added in bgpaas-bgp-router to
select primary and secondary control-node-zones.
    <xsd:complexType name="BgpaasBgpRouterType">
        <xsd:all>
            <xsd:element name="primary-zone" type="xsd:string" required='optional'
             description='control-node-zone for bgp-peering for x.x.x.1 gateway'/>
            <xsd:element name="secondary-zone" type="xsd:string" required='optional'
             description='control-node-zone for bgp-peering for x.x.x.2 gateway'/>
        </xsd:all>
    </xsd:complexType>
    <xsd:element name="bgpaas-bgp-router" type="BgpaasBgpRouterType"/>
    <!--#IFMAP-SEMANTICS-IDL
        Link('bgpaas-bgp-router', 'bgp-as-a-service', 'bgp-router', ['ref'], 'system-only', 'CRUD',
            'Reference to internal BGP peer object automatically generated by the system.') -->

## 3.3 User workflow impact
User is expected to configure control-node-zones and select primary and
secondary zone in BGPaaS
Any configuration change would be applied to new BGPaaS sessions. Existing
flows wont be affected.
If Existing flows are affected for any reasons, new flows would be set with
current BGPaaS configuration.

## 3.4 UI changes
Global-System-Config will have an option to add/modify/delete control-node-zones
Control-Node-Zone will have an option to add/modify/delete control-nodes
Bgp-Router will have an option to add/modify/delete control-node-zone.
BGPaaS will have an option to add/modify/delete primary and secondary
control-node-zone.

## 3.5 Notification impact

# 4. Implementation

## 4.1 Work items

### 4.1.1 Vrouter Agent changes
Contril-vrouter-agent will get control-node-zone and bgp-router config from
global-system-config.
Contrail-vrouter-agent will get primary and secondary control-node-zone name
from bgpaas-bgp-router attribute.
Contrail-vrouter-agent will construct primary and seconday bgp-peers
(control-node) from control-node-zones.
Contrail-vrouter-agent will select the bgp-peer from primary, if VNF uses
x.x.x.1. If VNF uses x.x.x.2, bgp-peer will be selected from secondary.
[Selecting bgp-peer in primary/secondary is random.]
If control-node-zone is not configured, it will follow the existing model(choose
first xmpp server for x.x.x.1 and second xmpp server for x.x.x.2)

### 4.1.2 Vrouter changes
There are no vrouter changes.

## 4.2 Limitations

# 5. Performance and scaling impact
## 5.1 API and control plane
#### Scaling and performance for API and control plane

## 5.2 Forwarding performance
#### Scaling and performance for API and forwarding

# 6. Upgrade
None

# 7. Deprecations
None

# 8. Dependencies
None.

# 9. Testing
## 9.1 Unit tests
a) Configure BGPaaS with primary/secondary control-node-zone and check the
bgp-peer
b) Confiugre BGPaaS without control-node-zone and check it follows the existing
model.

## 9.2 System tests

# 10. Documentation Impact

# 11. References
